Update account docs (#709)
OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/api/account.adoc

:github-icon: pass:[<svg class="icon"><use href="#github-icon"/></svg>]
:snip6: https://github.com/ericnordelo/SNIPs/blob/feat/standard-account/SNIPS/snip-6.md[SNIP-6]

= Account

Reference of interfaces, presets, and utilities related to Account contracts.

TIP: For an overview of Accounts, read our xref:accounts.adoc[Accounts guide].

== Core

[.contract]
[[ISRC6]]
=== `++ISRC6++` link:https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/blob/cairo-2/src/account/interface.cairo#L12[{github-icon},role=heading-link]

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
use openzeppelin::account::interface::ISRC6;
```

Interface of the ISRC6 standard as defined in the {snip6}.

[.contract-index]
.Functions
--
* xref:#ISRC6-\\__execute__[`++__execute__(calls)++`]
* xref:#ISRC6-\\__validate__[`++__validate__(calls)++`]

> * xref:#ISRC6-is_valid_signature[`++is_valid_signature(hash, signature)++`]

Author: To me, self shouldn't be part of these API functions, because is not really a part of the interface (similar to the discussion in SRC5). 

It is true that it supposedly shows if the external method writes to storage or not, but this is a development-level convention and is not really enforced in the protocol, meaning that even if self is a snapshot, you can still modify the storage in that method by using the storage_write syscall.

I think that assuming that a function can't write to storage because self is a snapshot is a vulnerability.

> * xref:#ISRC6-is_valid_signature[`++is_valid_signature(hash, signature)++`]

Reviewer: > I think that assuming that a function can't write to storage because self is a snapshot is a vulnerability.

Mmmm agreed. Perhaps we can revisit when/if this gets fixed because I think, assuming it works as advertised, this is helpful for the user. Maybe this reason alone isn't enough idk

> * xref:#ISRC6-is_valid_signature[`++is_valid_signature(hash, signature)++`]

Author: After revisiting this a couple of times, I think I'm leaning towards leaving `self` out of interfaces (like ISRC6) API reference, but including it in the modules (like Account), because we are not documenting the external interface, but the API, and self is part of that API when you want to call those module's contents. Also, pure internal methods should be represented differently as you mentioned. I updated the PR to match this already, let me know what do you think

> * xref:#ISRC6-is_valid_signature[`++is_valid_signature(hash, signature)++`]

Reviewer 2: +1 to `self` being part of the library's API (even if it's not the contract's ABI)

also, if we ever decide to remove `self` and diverge from the written code of our lib, we should add a clarification for anyone comparing docs vs code

--

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__execute__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__execute__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → Array<Span<felt252>>++` [.item-kind]#external#

See xref:ISRC6-\\__execute__[ISRC6::\\__execute__].

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__validate__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

See xref:ISRC6-\\__validate__[ISRC6::\\__validate__].

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__validate_declare__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate_declare__++#++(class_hash: felt252) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates a Declare transaction.

Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, or any other value otherwise.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__validate_deploy__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate_deploy__++#++(class_hash: felt252, contract_address_salt: felt252, _public_key: felt252) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates a DeployAccount transaction.

Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, or any other value otherwise.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-set_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++set_public_key++#++(new_public_key: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#external#

> Sets a new public key for the account.

Reviewer: I think we should mention that this emits `OwnerAdded` and `OwnerRemoved` and also that this can only be called by self

Author: Indeed, will udpdate.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-get_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++get_public_key++#++()++ → felt252` [.item-kind]#external#

Returns the current public key of the account.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-is_valid_signature]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++is_valid_signature++#++(hash: felt252, signature: Array<felt252>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

See xref:ISRC6-is_valid_signature[ISRC6::is_valid_signature].

[.contract-item]
[[Account-supports_interface]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++supports_interface++#++(interface_id: felt252) → bool++` [.item-kind]#external#

Returns whether a contract implements a given interface or not.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-OwnerAdded]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++OwnerAdded++#++(new_owner_guid: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#event#

Emitted when the account `public_key` is updated.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-OwnerRemoved]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++OwnerRemoved++#++(removed_owner_guid: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#event#

> Emitted when the account `public_key` is updated except for initialization.

Author: >Shouldn't we include an API for internals? Or is it too big of an endeavor for this milestone you think? I only ask because that's currently included in the drafted ERC20 and 721 doc PRs

I think we should add it, yes, but maybe for the next iteration? I think having external and events is a big improvement already.

>Even if we stick with the bare bones API for now, I think we should include constructor

+1 to this.

:github-icon: pass:[<svg class="icon"><use href="#github-icon"/></svg>]
:snip6: https://github.com/ericnordelo/SNIPs/blob/feat/standard-account/SNIPS/snip-6.md[SNIP-6]

> = Account

Reviewer 2: i think it's worth documenting the `Call` struct, don't you think? not only it's very useful to use/study the library, but it's also referenced multiple times in this very section

Reference of interfaces, presets, and utilities related to Account contracts.

== Core

[.contract]
[[ISRC6]]
=== `++ISRC6++` link:https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/blob/cairo-2/src/account/interface.cairo#L12[{github-icon},role=heading-link]

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
use openzeppelin::account::interface::ISRC6;
```

> Interface of the ISRC6 standard as defined in the {snip6}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interface of the SRC6 Standard Account Interface as defined in {snip6}.
```
- the standard is SRC, not ISRC
- i lean towards stating what SRCs are when we reference them (e.g. call it "SRC6 standard account interface")

Author: > the standard is SRC, not ISRC

+1

> lean towards stating what SRCs are when we reference them (e.g. call it "SRC6 standard account interface")

To me, this would just add unnecessary repetition. We may reference the SNIPs a lot, and people can always get to the SNIP to get more context if they don't have it already. In Solidity we don't add the name for each EIP reference.

Also, "Interface of the SRC6 Standard Account Interface" is a weird sentence imo.

Reviewer 2: I like that last one

[.contract-index]
.Functions
--
* xref:#ISRC6-\\__execute__[`++__execute__(calls)++`]
* xref:#ISRC6-\\__validate__[`++__validate__(calls)++`]
* xref:#ISRC6-is_valid_signature[`++is_valid_signature(hash, signature)++`]
--

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-__execute__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__execute__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → Array<Span<felt252>>++` [.item-kind]#external#

Executes the list of calls as a transaction after validation.

> Returns the list of each call output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns an array with each call's output.
```

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-__validate__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates a transaction before execution.

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, or any other value otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-is_valid_signature]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++is_valid_signature++#++(hash: felt252, signature: Array<felt252>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates whether a signature is valid or not for the given message hash.

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, or any other value otherwise.

Reviewer 2: i guess "other value otherwise" is ok to inform how to interact in a standard way, but at least for our preset we need to specify what is actually returned.

[.contract]
[[Account]]
=== `++Account++` link:https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/blob/cairo-2/src/account/account.cairo#L27[{github-icon},role=heading-link]

:OwnerAdded: xref:Account-OwnerAdded[OwnerAdded]
:OwnerRemoved: xref:Account-OwnerRemoved[OwnerRemoved]

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
use openzeppelin::account::Account;
```

> Base Account contract implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Account contract implementation extending xref:ISRC6[`ISRC6`].
```
to keep stressing on the idea that ISRC6 are valid and sufficient accounts. otherwise it might look like this is the most basic account.

[.contract-index]
.Utilities
--

> * xref:#Account-assert_only_self[`++InternalImpl::assert_only_self(self)++`]

Reviewer 2: we're missing this one right?

[.contract-subindex-inherited]
.SRC5Impl

* xref:#Account-supports_interface[`++supports_interface(self, interface_id)++`]

[.contract-subindex-inherited]
.DeclarerImpl

* xref:#Account-\\__validate_declare__[`++__validate_declare__(self, class_hash)++`]

[.contract-subindex-inherited]
.PublicKeyImpl

* xref:#Account-set_public_key[`++set_public_key(self, new_public_key)++`]
* xref:#Account-get_public_key[`++get_public_key(self)++`]

[.contract-subindex-inherited]
.InternalImpl

* xref:#Account-initializer[`++initializer(self, _public_key)++`]
* xref:#Account-validate_transaction[`++validate_transaction(self)++`]
* xref:#Account-_set_public_key[`++_set_public_key(self, new_public_key)++`]
* xref:#Account-_is_valid_signature[`++_is_valid_signature(self, hash, signature)++`]
--

[.contract-index]
.Events
--
* xref:#Account-OwnerAdded[`++OwnerAdded(new_owner_guid)++`]
* xref:#Account-OwnerRemoved[`++OwnerRemoved(removed_owner_guid)++`]
--

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__validate_deploy__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate_deploy__++#++(self: @ContractState, class_hash: felt252, contract_address_salt: felt252, _public_key: felt252) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

> Validates a DeployAccount transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validates a https://docs.starknet.io/documentation/architecture_and_concepts/Network_Architecture/Blocks/transactions/#deploy_account_transaction[`DeployAccount` transaction]. See xref:/guides/deployment.adoc[Counterfactual Deployments].
```

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, or any other value otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__execute__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__execute__++#++(ref self: ContractState, calls: Array<Call>) → Array<Span<felt252>>++` [.item-kind]#external#

See xref:ISRC6-\\__execute__[ISRC6::\\__execute__].

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__validate__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate__++#++(self: @ContractState, calls: Array<Call>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

See xref:ISRC6-\\__validate__[ISRC6::\\__validate__].

[.contract-item]
[[Account-is_valid_signature]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++is_valid_signature++#++(self: @ContractState, hash: felt252, signature: Array<felt252>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

See xref:ISRC6-is_valid_signature[ISRC6::is_valid_signature].

[.contract-item]
[[Account-supports_interface]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++supports_interface++#++(self: @ContractState, interface_id: felt252) → bool++` [.item-kind]#external#

> Returns whether a contract implements a given interface or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns whether a contract implements a given interface or not.
```
please add a link to SRC5 / introspection section

Author: I'm planning to in the introspection PR.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-__validate_declare__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate_declare__++#++(self: @ContractState, class_hash: felt252) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

> Validates a Declare transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validates a https://docs.starknet.io/documentation/architecture_and_concepts/Network_Architecture/Blocks/transactions/#declare-transaction[`Declare` transaction].
```

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, or any other value otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

[.contract-item]
[[Account-set_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++set_public_key++#++(ref self: ContractState, new_public_key: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#external#

> Sets a new public key for the account. Can be called only by self through the `\\__execute__` mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets a new public key for the account. Only accesible by the account calling itself through `\\__execute__`.
```
this reads better to me

> Emits an {OwnerRemoved}, and an {OwnerAdded} event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Emits both an {OwnerRemoved} and an {OwnerAdded} event.
```

[.contract-item]
[[Account-get_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++get_public_key++#++(self: @ContractState)++ → felt252` [.item-kind]#external#

Returns the current public key of the account.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-initializer]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++initializer++#++(ref self: ContractState, _public_key: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#internal#

Initializes the account with the given public key, and registers the ISRC6 interface ID.

Emits an {OwnerAdded} event.

[.contract-item]

> [[Account-validate_transaction]]

Reviewer 2: i wonder if there's anything we can do to visually separate externals from internals from events, etc

Reviewer 2: i like it! i think we can further distinguish between externals and internals, no?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

Reviewer 2: I like it, but unsure about "Internalimpl", it looks just like another impl. How can we properly communicate which functions are external and which internals visually?

Looking forward, is it possible that we offer a component (not a contract/preset) with both externals and internals? or components will always be externals?

Author: From what I recall from previous conversations. Every method in a component will be internal (or private, etc..). External methods needs to be exposed in the contract using the component, probably by using the component API.

Important to note that external in this context means callable as target for a transaction, not usable by others module in the cairo code.

Author: > How can we properly communicate which functions are external and which internals visually?

Maybe we can split the `Functions` in `External Functions` and `Internal Functions`? Not all the internal functions need to be in the InternalImpl (they will most of the time though)

Author: I updated the Account API to reflect this proposal, lmk wdyt

==== `[.contract-item-name]#++validate_transaction++#++(self: @ContractState)++ → felt252` [.item-kind]#internal#

> Validates a transaction signature from the global context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validates a transaction signature from the global context.
```
might be worth explaining what the global context is

Author: Let me know if adding the link is enough.

Reviewer 2: it is

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```
it's important to state when a function reverts, since it's a very relevant part of the interface

[.contract-item]
[[Account-_set_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++_set_public_key++#++(ref self: ContractState, new_public_key: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#internal#

> Set the public key without asserting the context.

Reviewer 2: what is "asserting the context"?

Emits an {OwnerAdded} event.

CAUTION: The usage of this method outside the `set_public_key` function is discouraged.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-_is_valid_signature]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++_is_valid_signature++#++(self: @ContractState, hash: felt252, signature: Span<felt252>)++ → bool` [.item-kind]#internal#

Validates the provided `signature` for the `hash`, using the account current public key.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-OwnerAdded]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++OwnerAdded++#++(new_owner_guid: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#event#

> Emitted when the account `public_key` is updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Emitted when a `public_key` is added.
```
our current implementation has a single key, but i think we should document the event in its general form -- at least until we have a SNIP for it, then it'll have its own section as ISRC6

[.contract-item]
[[Account-OwnerRemoved]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++OwnerRemoved++#++(removed_owner_guid: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#event#

> Emitted when the account `public_key` is updated except for initialization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Emitted when a `public_key` is removed.
```

NOTE: The `Call` struct is defined in https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo/blob/main/corelib/src/starknet/account.cairo#L3[corelib].

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-__validate__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates a transaction before execution.

Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise ir reverts.

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-is_valid_signature]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++is_valid_signature++#++(hash: felt252, signature: Array<felt252>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates whether a signature is valid or not for the given message hash.

Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise ir reverts.

[.contract]
[[Account]]
=== `++Account++` link:https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/blob/cairo-2/src/account/account.cairo#L27[{github-icon},role=heading-link]

:OwnerAdded: xref:Account-OwnerAdded[OwnerAdded]
:OwnerRemoved: xref:Account-OwnerRemoved[OwnerRemoved]

[.hljs-theme-light.nopadding]
```javascript
use openzeppelin::account::Account;
```
Account contract implementation extending xref:ISRC6[`ISRC6`].

[.contract-index]
.Utilities
--

> * xref:#Account-assert_only_self[`++InternalImpl::assert_only_self(self)++`]

Reviewer: Should we document `_execute_calls` and `_execute_single_call`?

Reviewer 2: i'm not sure that's part of the API we offer, up to debate though

Reviewer: Agreed, they're more helpers than part of the API per se. I lean toward documenting them because whether we mean for them to be part of the API or not, they're accessible. No strong opinions though

Author: I'm leaning towards letting them out of the docs, but changing the attribute from `#[internal]` to `#[private]`. This won't make the functions inaccessible, but I think people will understand private stuff not being part of the documented API (or we can explicitly say it in our codying style doc).

ex:

```
    #[private]
    fn _execute_single_call(call: Call) -> Span<felt252> {
        let Call{to, selector, calldata } = call;
        starknet::call_contract_syscall(to, selector, calldata.span()).unwrap()
    }
```

Reviewer: Nice and simple! I think this looks good

--

[.contract-index]
.Functions
--
* xref:#Account-\\__validate_deploy__[`++__validate_deploy__(self, hash, signature)++`]

> 

Reviewer 2: was it resolved? the link is not linking to a discussion

> 

Reviewer: My bad, the link should be fixed^^

* xref:#ISRC6-is_valid_signature[`++is_valid_signature(hash, signature)++`]
--

[#ISRC6-Functions]
==== Functions

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-__execute__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__execute__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → Array<Span<felt252>>++` [.item-kind]#external#

Executes the list of calls as a transaction after validation.

Returns an array with each call's output.

NOTE: The `Call` struct is defined in https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo/blob/main/corelib/src/starknet/account.cairo#L3[corelib].

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-__validate__]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++__validate__++#++(calls: Array<Call>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates a transaction before execution.

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise ir reverts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise ir reverts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

[.contract-item]
[[ISRC6-is_valid_signature]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++is_valid_signature++#++(hash: felt252, signature: Array<felt252>) → felt252++` [.item-kind]#external#

Validates whether a signature is valid or not for the given message hash.

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise ir reverts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

> Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise ir reverts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.
```

Emits both an {OwnerRemoved} and an {OwnerAdded} event.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-get_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++get_public_key++#++(self: @ContractState)++ → felt252` [.item-kind]#external#

Returns the current public key of the account.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-initializer]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++initializer++#++(ref self: ContractState, _public_key: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#internal#

Initializes the account with the given public key, and registers the ISRC6 interface ID.

Emits an {OwnerAdded} event.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-validate_transaction]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++validate_transaction++#++(self: @ContractState)++ → felt252` [.item-kind]#internal#

Validates a transaction signature from the
https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo/blob/main/corelib/src/starknet/info.cairo#L61[global context].

Returns the short string `'VALID'` if valid, otherwise it reverts.

[.contract-item]
[[Account-_set_public_key]]
==== `[.contract-item-name]#++_set_public_key++#++(ref self: ContractState, new_public_key: felt252)++` [.item-kind]#internal#

> Set the public key without asserting the caller.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set the public key without validating the caller.
```
